Previously on Cross...
[Sampson] You're not managing very well.
I had to put flowers on your wife's grave.
[Anderson] Emir Goodspeed OD'd.
The end.
[Emir on recording] I went to that dude's
house for a date. I'm at 41 Price Street.
[Cross] It all comes back
to whatever went down
at the Price Street address. I need
a warrant, please.
[Ramsey] I need you to be strong.
Aileen Wuornos.
She killed seven men.
- But I can do something so much better.
- Hit it.
- [Bobby] Voilà.
- [Ramsey] And the book?
- [Bobby] I ain't had no time.
- [Ramsey] So where is it?
[Cross] These are all serial killers
on one side and victims on the other.
There's one killer without a match:
Aileen Wuornos.
I need to find out
who's fucking with my family.
[gunshots]
[Massey] The woman's name
was Brenda Leeland.
- We found a note in her room.
- Is that a dress?
It's not Maria's, but I've seen it before.
[clattering]
[panting]
[ominous music playing]
Lance Marion went on a date
expecting to meet a lovely young woman.
Instead,
he met a murderer.
[Lance] Please, please.
You can take it all,
just please let me go.
- Please, please--
- Shut the fuck up.
[Kowaleski] She tortured him for hours.
[Deirdre] Don't have shit in here!
[Kowaleski] And when he tried to escape...
[shouts]
[grunting]
[Kowaleski] Deirdre Nolan
ruthlessly struck Lance Marion
until he was long past dead.
Not once, not twice,
but 17 times. The evidence
proves that beyond the shadow of a doubt,
starting with her confession.
It's up to you, the jury,
to make sure she never kills again.
♪ ♪
[Sampson] Seventeen times?
You don't see that kind of overkill
from a woman too often.
No, but trauma changes things.
I mean, the way Deirdre came up,
she never knew her father,
her mom was an addict and a prostitute,
OD'd when Deirdre was 13.
- Homeless after that.
- [key clicks]
Prosecution has concluded its case.
The court will now hear
closing arguments from the defense.
- [key clicks]
- You recognize that dress?
[Sampson] Oh, shit.
So that's what this looked like
when it was new.
Who got their hands on this?
I don't know, but you want to hear
some more crazy shit?
Brenda Leeland was a C.O.
Yo, don't tell me she worked
at the same prison they sent Deirdre to.
She was fired a year ago
for multiple citations for--
guess what-- inmate abuse.
All right. So, Kowaleski
was the prosecutor that put her away.
Brenda Leeland did God knows what to her
when she was locked up.
How did you land on the shit list?
If I had to guess...
[Cross on video] Well, the defendant
showed inappropriate affect, uh,
lack of empathy, violent tendencies.
All the signs
of a psychopathic personality.
[Kittworth] In your opinion,
can the state provide the therapy
this woman needs
to keep the public safe?
Oh, therapy may help her, yes.
But will she be able to reenter society?
No.
In my professional opinion,
she cannot be fixed.
I can't believe I said that shit.
You saw what she did with that bat.
Yeah, but I try to teach the kids
there's always hope.
That no one is beyond redemption.
The judge gave her life.
He cited my testimony
when he sentenced her.
She goes in, she gets abused,
commits suicide.
And someone wants you to pay.
- But who?
- I don't know.
There's no relatives, no trace of anyone
in the records I've been able to turn up.
But you did a psychiatric eval, right?
Yeah, but I can't get it.
The law changed. It's privileged now.
And there's no one to sign a release.
[atmospheric music playing]
I'm just gonna check on something.
[Jannie] Just pick a song
you already know.
Can't just be a song I already know.
[muffled] I have to connect to it.
- [Jannie] Why?
- Psst. Psst, psst.
[Damon] Well, Miss Nancy says that
when you love a song,
it sounds better when you play it.
[playing "Clair de lune"
by Claude Debussy]
[playing stops]
[Jannie] Boring.
Does it have to be classical?
- No. I could play Mommy's song.
- Don't.
- [plays chords]
[Damon] Why?
[Jannie] Don't play that, Damon.
It'll make Daddy sad.
Oh. Look, we-we got
to make a change, Alex.
You got your babies walking on eggshells.
I know.
It takes time.
It takes effort to move forward.
You know what Friday is?
- No.
- Yes, I'm bringing it back.
There's too much sadness in this house.
Too much waiting around
for life to happen again.
A little First Friday Karaoke
would do us all good.
We need it.
It's too soon.
Look, you've got between now and Friday
to get yourself in the right place,
because it is going to happen, baby.
[Lem] This was built
for temperature control,
so you're already halfway
to soundproof safe room.
- Mm-hmm.
- We just need to reinforce, uh,
this wall here, here, the new door.
And run the cables, uh, for the cameras,
and tying the vents
into the separate HVAC.
This is no problem, Mr. Ramsey.
Good. Make this your priority.
I don't care if you have
to work around the clock.
Sure, sure. We do this in maybe
three days, maybe two.
I'll leave you to it, then.
- [Stan] What kind of dog?
- Dog?
- You have dog?
- Oh, right.
[chuckles] I did, but it died.
[tense music playing]
[speaking Polish] Measure! And don't ever
ask the client personal questions!
Alright.
[muffled shouting]
[groans]
[whimpers]
[Cross] All right, Emir Goodspeed
was murdered by a serial killer,
but that killer
kept a scrapbook of their work.
In here, you'll find a postmortem photo
of Emir and ten other victims.
Each of those victims was transformed
to resemble a serial killer.
Now, our killer turned Emir
into Maurice Freeman, Jr.,
better known as the Sandman.
He raped and killed 14 women.
He was executed in 2007
by lethal injection,
same method used to kill Emir.
All the serial killers were executed
except for one, who shot himself.
Of the victims identified,
the methods match,
and we feel it's the same case
for the rest of them.
Now, Freeman's last meal
was grilled pork chops,
mashed potatoes, chocolate cupcake.
Emir's stomach contents show
he was fed the exact same meal
before death.
Our killer duplicates
absolutely everything.
This book will be the key
to finding our killer.
That print-- is it blood or ink?
Blood.
Several of the pages contain mementos.
Human tissue, hair, blood,
scraps of clothes.
We've sent samples to the lab.
What are we calling this freak?
[Sampson] We're calling him the Fanboy.
Seemed like a good name
for this motherfucker.
The media gonna love this shit.
Yeah, but let's try to keep a lid on this
until we have the man in custody.
Until then, this room is a one-stop shop
for everything Fanboy.
You guys can start with confirming IDs
on the rest of the victims.
[Cross] There's one more thing.
The pages in this book
are set up for 12 killers.
Emir and the Sandman complete
set number 11.
That means the Fanboy
needs one more victim
to complete whatever work he's doing,
and we think he's already found her.
Her?
Aileen Wuornos.
You got it.
She's the only one in that book
without a twin.
[Sampson] Yet.
But we have evidence that our killer
currently has a captive.
And that means we're on the clock.
That's right. Now, we don't have a name,
but three things are certain:
she resembles Aileen Wuornos,
he's gonna make her an exact match
and he's gonna kill her
if we don't find her first.
If you coming with an apology,
I want it in writing.
You batting a thousand, John?
You said this guy has someone, right?
Mm-hmm.
Well, this girl's missing.
You make her a blonde,
that's Aileen's sister.
- What's her name?
- Shannon Witmer.
[dramatic music playing]
You hear these stories.
People go missing
and just show back up, you know?
There was this woman in Colorado,
just last year.
Disappears for, like, two weeks.
- Turns out, she was just on vacation and--
- Stop.
You can't just wish...
Tom has always been an optimist.
But you guys are from homicide, right?
So, is this that visit?
We think she's alive.
[both gasping]
Can you tell us about the man she was
meeting the day she disappeared?
What-what man? She was meeting someone?
Coworkers said she met someone
on a dating app.
- He was helping her find a new job.
- New job? No, no.
Uh, she would have told me about that.
We talk or text every day.
That's why I was worried.
She just suddenly stopped.
Can I see your cell phone, please?
- [dramatic music playing]
- [sniffles]
Here.
[Sampson] Thank you.
[drill whirring]
[dance music playing over headphones]
[drilling continues]
[Malika] You here for a reason
or just to eat our cookies?
We're here to work.
Now, I know you heard we got Emir's death
declared a homicide.
Thank you for finally telling the truth,
- Detective.
- [Crystal] Malika.
- They're our guests.
- [Cross] We're looking for ways
that Emir may have
crossed paths with his killer.
You know if he was on any dating apps?
Malika, answer their question.
They're doing something for Emir,
and as far as I can tell,
they're the only ones.
Yeah, he was.
Do you know which one?
Well, if he was, it was a gay one.
That help?
He lived in my house, child.
So, then, why did you let him
sneak around all that time?
Because I figured
he'd tell me when he was ready.
[contemplative music playing]
He was on e-Fling, mostly, 'cause...
- ...they let you match with any gender.
- Okay.
Thank you. That's all we needed.
[atmospheric music playing]
Good?
Where'd they go?
- Lunch.
- [soft scrubbing]
Let's see if we can't undo
some of this damage.
Are those Weegees?
You know Weegee?
Course you do.
Want to know a secret?
Those are mine.
I took those.
So?
What do you think?
Come on, give me your critique.
I can take it.
They really do remind me of Weegee's work.
In what way?
[Shannon] All those shots of crime
scenes-- they're like...
classic still-lifes.
Except they're more like still-deaths.
Do you know what I mean?
Yes.
It's like...
...instead of a fly
or a clock in the painting
to suggest death in the midst of life,
Weegee
captures a spark of life
amidst death.
He makes it beautiful
without hiding the gory reality.
It's probably why he remains so relevant.
His work, it...
it tells truths
no one wants to hear.
Well, if you're not doing that,
what's the point?
That's what art is.
Exactly.
Right.
Oh.
It's hard to talk like this
when you have me...
I wish that we could...
really talk.
Maybe we could.
- If you promise--
- I promise.
[tense music playing]
[doorbell rings]
- Let's continue this later.
- [muffled] Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Shh.
Here's the good news.
Mrs. Witmer was right.
Shannon's messages
never made it to her phone.
Everything passing between them was
being intercepted
and responded to by the killer.
[Cross] How is that possible?
I'd need Shannon's phone to be sure.
But my best guess
is a spyware called RATS.
Seriously classified shit.
You need more than money
to get your hands on it.
He's in a position of power
by day and by night.
He controls everything about his victims
before he kills them.
And he savors that control.
Well, the bad news is that
the dating apps are no help to us.
Shannon and Emir were on different apps,
and they were both very popular.
Too popular.
- They had hundreds of matches
between both of them.
- Hundreds?
- A match isn't a hookup, old man.
- [chuckles]
- Did you cross-reference--
- [Vega] All the matches?
What are we, rookies?
None of the names match.
- All right, did you, uh--
- [De Lackner] Yes, we checked
for catfish and none of the fake profiles
- matched up either.
- [Cross] Mm-hmm.
- Can you put 'em up--
- [De Lackner] On the screen
so you can see 'em?
Told you.
[chuckles]
Shannon and Emir didn't match or connect
with any of the same profiles.
[sinister music playing]
[Cross] Hmm. Josh Glatman.
Born in the Bronx, December 10.
Lived in Colorado. Loves reading
pulp fiction.
You know who else loved pulp fiction?
No.
Harvey Glatman, the Lonely Hearts Killer.
I never heard of him.
We got Joey Alcala.
Born in Texas.
Loves films and game shows.
- Wait. The Dating Game Killer.
- That's right.
- Rodney Alcala.
- [Sampson] That's right.
Guy went on The Dating Game and won.
Bachelorette didn't want
to go out on a date with him, though.
- Said he was too creepy.
- Happens to Akbar all the time.
[laughing]
All right, listen, the Fanboy is using
the names of real serial killers.
Yeah, you two dig a little deeper,
see if you can find the real people
- behind these.
- That's gonna take some time.
Got an idea to speed things up.
We're gonna feed the beast.
[Sampson] This woman
couldn't meet us inside?
It's too cold out here.
Maybe wear a real coat in the winter,
my friend.
But, no, no, you want
everybody to see your nipples.
You know, it's days like this
that I wish global warming was real.
Hey, hey, hey. You want to slander
COVID vaccines, that's one thing,
but you leave that climate change denying
bullshit at the house.
- I'm serious.
- I'm saying it's cold, right?
I'm not playing with you.
Is that my sandwich?
So what's going on?
You don't answer the phone when I call,
and now we've got to do this in person?
I'm here to make good
on a favor that I owe you.
[Hightower] Yeah, how good?
[Cross] Shannon Witmer.
She's a college graduate.
Promising future. She went missing.
That's front page, right, John?
Oh, I think so.
Especially since she got parents
who can cry on cue.
But we got the expert right here.
Hightower?
Missing white girl.
I mean, it's newsworthy,
but that's not what our deal was.
You promised me everything and anything
connected to the Goodspeed case.
Wait, is she--
- This-this is connected?
- You help me,
you get the exclusive when it breaks.
For now, just get her name
and her face out there.
Are those my chips?
I owe you.
[Nana Mama] [laughing] A big halo.
[Miss Nancy] We're both too old
to be some kind of "Private Dancer."
Now, this Proud Mary Tina--
it hits both Cs-- it's both
- classy and classic.
- [Nana Mama laughs]
No, no, no, you got it backwards, Nancy.
Being old means
we can dance anytime, anywhere.
With our knees?
[both laughing]
- Hey!
- Oh, Alex!
Guess who's coming with us
for First Friday?
Yeah, I heard that you can sing a little.
I can't wait.
She should've told you I'm not coming.
Stop it. You have to come.
No, he doesn't.
Damon can run the machine.
Um, can you get it off the shelf
in the garage?
Damon can't do that part.
I'll go get it.
Well, it's the least you can do,
when you're breaking traditions.
Supposed to be the whole family there.
But the whole family
won't be there, will we?
The only voice I'll hear
is the one that's missing.
I'm sorry, Nana. I'm s-sorry, I can't. I--
I mean, what, you w-you want
to see me break down?
No, baby, I just
want to see you break through.
[dramatic music playing]
[♪ Chaka Khan: "Love Me Still"]
[Maria] [voice-over] ♪ Here is my hand ♪
♪ For you to hold ♪
♪ Here's the part of me
they have not sold ♪
♪ I've wandered far ♪
♪ I've had my fill ♪
♪ I need you now ♪
♪ Do you love me sti-- ♪
[crowd chanting] Justice for Emir!
Justice for Emir!
[Malika] Shannon Witmer's
only been missing a few days
and she's on the front page.
And no offense to her.
We hope she's okay.
But my brother, Emir Goodspeed--
a pillar in the community--
was killed over two weeks ago
and the MPD has only now
admitted he was murdered.
And he has never seen the front page.
Make sure they don't forget Emir.
[crowd chanting] Justice for Emir!
Justice for Emir!
Malika.
No one is trying to forget Emir.
- This isn't by accident.
- So it's a conspiracy?
You don't think that
there are white supremacists
in the establishment working against us?
I know damn well there are.
But we sometimes
can be our own worst enemies.
Wow. You have been pushed
to a whole new level of coonery.
I mean, not just victim blaming,
but the victim
blaming himself. Just...
Look, Ed says it's not even black tie.
I say we leave as soon
as he blows out the candles.
Mm, nah.
I'm not going without a date.
Are you trying to make me jealous, huh?
No, look.
I'm not gonna be a good date
until I wrap up this case.
Don't make me call Hilliard.
Okay, okay.
Oh, nah, nah, that's cold.
You gonna put a name to the competition?
Are you stressing over something, Alex?
What you talking about? I'm good.
[scoffs] You can tell that story
to somebody else.
As long as I've been here,
never once have you not finished
a half smoke with chili.
This makes two weeks in a row.
Better get that looked at.
[pop music playing on speakers]
She's right.
You need some Alex Cross time.
You can't be good for anybody
until you're good to yourself.
Are you trying to spin this back
to Ramsey's birthday party?
Oh, forget the party.
Nah, you and me.
Tomorrow night.
No excuses.
Pick you up after work.
Where we going?
You want me to say right here?
In front of all these people?
I...
I kind of do.
The way you're making it sound.
Well, it's definitely going to feel
even better than it sounds.
[Sampson] You're right.
These quotes must matter to this freak.
But they look random.
Why are these ones red?
A lot of the quotes are public record.
Last words, statements to the press.
Like that.
But there's no record of these red ones.
De Lackner thinks
he made shit up to suit himself.
You don't agree?
One of my dumb-ass cousins
got to trading letters
with a guy doing a nickel for GTA.
Started saying shit like,
"I love him, Amielynn."
Jesus.
So you think the Fanboy
corresponded with these freaks.
[Vega] Well, not everyone has a cousin
to beat some sense into them.
Fuck.
What inspired this?
[De Lackner] This sick motherfucker
has got to go away, ASAP.
[Sampson] All right,
this is everything we have on Emir.
Theme on Shannon.
These two are the other victims.
Couple of blanks here and there, but...
[intriguing music playing]
[Vega] Hey, did we ever figure out
- the name of that--
- Shh.
Doing his thing.
He thinks...
he's an artist.
[keys jingling]
He wants to leave behind a masterwork.
He wants to be adored.
Thank you all for accommodating
this schedule change.
I ran into some
unforeseen circumstances, but
I've addressed them.
[Cross] It's the book.
You know how some people think
a photo can take a part of their soul?
I think that's the book for him.
A way to...
...capture their power for himself.
[Ramsey] [muffled] Everything
is on track.
I am going to finish on the day,
and the time, as was always the plan.
He won't kill forever.
He has an ultimate moment
he's been working towards for years.
[Ramsey] And I know
that you will all want to be there
to witness the moment
everything changes.
[Cross] And then...
...then he'll be complete.
More.
Transformed.
We have to catch him
before he finishes Shannon.
If we don't find him
before that book is done,
we may never have another chance again.
[Sampson] You wanted Dierdre Nolan?
Ask and you shall receive.
That's the psych eval video you asked for.
Can't believe you found it.
You know, amazing is what I do.
When I'm not being perfect.
You think she gave the stalker away
in the interview?
I don't know.
But this is the last thread I have
to follow with her.
Hello, Deirdre, I'm Alex Cross.
How you doing?
I'm in jail, so...
That's right.
Do you know what you're in jail for?
[Deirdre] Is this a game?
You better be careful. I'm good at games.
It's not a game.
I killed Lance Marion.
[haunting music playing]
Why?
Does it matter?
It does to his friends and family.
They loved him.
What, did they think
he was gonna live forever?
Have you ever lost someone you love?
[Deirdre] Yeah. I had a cat.
She got hit by a car.
I bet you were sad about it.
I found a new cat.
There's always another cat.
Cats are different than people.
You lost your mother.
How did it feel to lose a family member?
- Blood doesn't make you family.
- Hmm.
What makes you family
is how much people love you.
- Your mother didn't love you?
- She wasn't family.
What makes you family
is how much people love you.
Someone out there loved Deirdre.
Enough to set Brenda Leeland up to die.
- Enough to kill Maria.
- We think.
If that's true,
then they got their revenge.
So why won't they leave you alone?
I guess revenge
didn't make the pain go away.
- [indistinct chatter]
- [phones ringing]
We found him!
- [Sampson] What?
- [laughing]
I've got Hardy and Akbar
writing a warrant,
but it's in Virginia,
so it's gonna take some time until we--
Stop, stop, stop. You found who?
The Fanboy?
One of Shannon's friends tells me
that she had some skin condition.
Dermatome, dermatomite--
however the fuck you say it.
Key part is, if it doesn't get treated,
it spreads.
And from the way you talk about Fanboy,
that won't do at all, right?
She needs to be perfect.
But you can't fix it
with over-the-counter medication.
You can't even get it
at a regular pharmacy.
It has to be custom-mixed
at a compounding pharmacy.
There's only three in the DMV,
and only one filled a prescription for it
- two days ago.
- Where?
- [Vega] Kugler's.
Customer picked it up yesterday. Boom.
Please tell me you got a name.
Harry Powers. Couldn't get access
to the customer file, but we worked
that name till we narrowed it down
to one motherfucker in the DMV.
[Robert Mitchum] Would you like me
to tell you the little story
of "Right Hand, Left Hand"?
The story of good and evil?
I was praying.
[Shelley Winters] Help me to get clean
so I can be what Harry wants me to be.
Did you ever see Night of the Hunter?
This old Robert Mitchum film.
He, uh, he plays a serial killer named...
Harry Powers? Are you shitting me?
Waste of fucking time!
No. It's not.
Eh, fake person,
but it's not like a catfish profile
on a dating app.
If he can get a prescription in that name,
then it's got to be tied
to something we can track--
a bank account, a driver's license.
He may have even
pinned it to a Social Security number.
[Sampson] Hmm.
Fanboy fucked up.
[Stan] Two keys-- one for the deadbolt,
one for you.
[Ramsey] Great.
And I'll take that one, too.
Uh, most people like to leave a key
on the inside if there's no bolt turn.
Just in case-- fire, accident--
this type of thing.
[Ramsey] I'll take my chances.
[sinister music playing]
And tell Lem to see me on the way out.
I'll have his check.
Yes, sir.
[soft clattering]
[panting]
[bottles clinking]
[panicked grunting]
[muffled shouting, screaming]
- [power tool whirrs]
- [metal clatters]
[crying]
[speaks Polish] Mother of God!
Please, please, please help me.
Who are you?
- Aah!
- Her name is Aileen.
Oh!
[intriguing music playing]
[Sampson] Coworkers said
she met someone on a dating app.
[Becky] We talk or text every day.
[Vega] Shannon's messages
never made it to her phone.
[Massey] Several of the pages
contain mementos.
We've sent samples to the lab.
[phone chimes]
DNA, motherfuckers. We got matches.
- Who's seen my reading glasses?
- Give me the damn phone.
You're not the only one who can read.
"Fingerprint on page 26
confirmed to be blood.
Profile matches Emir Goodspeed."
[Vega] Shit.
"Tissue, page four,
believed to be brain matter.
Profile matches Herb Baumeister."
First serial killer in Fanboy's book.
What else?
[Hardy] There's blood or tissue
from five of the original killers,
including a fingerprint
- in Gacy's own blood.
- Hmm.
So he doesn't just like them,
he wants to be them.
"I'm good for something in this world,
and I know it, too."
"I know it, too."
[vocalizes]
Somehow he's created connections with
each of these serial killers personally.
Herb Baumeister-- he was the first.
Nobody ever forgets their first, do they?
Where did he operate?
[Vega] Central Indiana.
At least 11 murders.
Fanboy's from Indiana.
You think or you know?
"What's it to be, Lord?
Not that you mind the killings.
Your book is full of killings.
Your book...
Your book is full of killings."
He's not a fan.
He worships them.
And this is not a scrapbook.
This is his Bible.
It's a reliquary
filled with pieces of his gods,
and when we took this...
we took a piece of him.
That wasn't supposed to happen.
I don't kill for fun.
I'm not a monster.
No.
[eerie music playing]
You're an artist.
You know I can tell where we are
based on the turns you've made
since you started, right?
And the rate of speed
and the seconds of waiting time.
Are you serious?
No.
But it's nice to know
you think I'm that good.
Or that weird. [laughs]
Okay, so you have no idea
where we are right now?
- Uh, no.
- Good.
You can take it off now.
- [all] Surprise!
- [Elle chuckles]
- [Nana Mama] Come on, boy!
- [Damon] Hey, Dad!
[chuckles] You set me up.
You want to fight about it?
We can catch a one-on-one right now.
[indistinct chatter]
Come on, Dad, what are you waiting for?
[♪ Patti LaBelle: "Lady Marmalade"]
♪ Gitchie gitchie ya ya ya da ♪
♪ Gitchie gitchie ya ya here ♪
♪ Mocha choco, ya ya ya ya ♪
♪ Creole Lady Marmalade ♪
- [♪ Timex Social Club: "Rumors"]
- ♪ Look at all these rumors ♪
♪ Surrounding me every day ♪
♪ I just need some time ♪
♪ Some time to get away ♪
♪ From all these rumors ♪
♪ I can't take it no more ♪
♪ My best friend
said there's one out now ♪
♪ About me and the girl next door ♪
- [♪ Rihanna: "Pon de Replay"]
- ♪ It goes one by one, even two by two ♪
♪ Everybody on the floor,
let me show you how we do ♪
♪ Let's go, dip it low,
then we bring it up slow ♪
♪ Wind it up one time,
wind it back once more ♪
♪ Come run, run, run, everybody move ♪
♪ Run, let me see you move, run ♪
♪ Rock it till the groove done ♪
[all] ♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
- [cheering]
- [laughing]
- [♪ Willow: "Whip My Hair"]
- ♪ Hop up out the bed,
turn my swag on ♪
♪ Pay no attention to the haters ♪
♪ 'Cause I just whip 'em off ♪
♪ And I ain't doin' nothin' wrong ♪
♪ So don't tell me nothin' ♪
♪ I'm just trying to have fun ♪
♪ Keep the party jumping, so what's up? ♪
♪ Hey ♪
♪ And I'll be doing what I do ♪
♪ I turn my back
and whip my hair and just ♪
[cheering, laughing]
Okay, everybody, time for the finale.
- Yay!
- Everybody grab your microphones.
- All right, all right. Eh, eh, eh!
- Yeah?
Hit it!
[Elle] Let's go!
[Sampson clears throat]
- [Cross] ♪ Mm ♪
- Mmm, mmm, mmm.
[Jannie] Did you hit the right thing?
I mean, yeah, it says it's playing, but...
[operator on recording] 911.
What's your emergency?
[Cross] This is Detective Alex Cross. I...
I've got-I've got a woman down.
My-my wife-- she's been shot.
There's, uh, there's-there's
multiple gunshot wounds and--
I need a bus.
I need-I need a bus right now.
[operator] Okay, slow down, Detective.
Can you tell me where?
[Cross] 4439--
[dramatic music playing]
[Jannie crying]
[quietly] Come on.
Aw, come on.
Come on.
Wish I could tell you something different,
but there's no way to know who did this.
This thing's hooked up
to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.
For any decent hacker,
this thing's as wide open
as a airplane hangar. [sighs]
It could be anyone with a couple
DeVry classes under their belt.
They could have inserted the file
from next door,
they could be all the way in Duluth.
It's just the world we live in, man.
Sorry.
- Thanks, Rassy.
- Yeah.
[phone vibrates]
Hey.
I'm so sorry.
I really thought this was gonna
be something good for us.
And-and you were right.
This isn't on you.
There's nothing we could have done
to stop this. Nothing.
[clears throat]
[suspenseful music playing]
To a life lived with passion.
Cheers.
[contemplative music playing]
Mmm.
You are a godsend.
To be the last to walk this path with me,
but the only one to understand.
Have you seen how it ends?
[soft chuckle] You're gonna
be part of a masterpiece.
And when I'm done, the world will know
the truth they don't want to hear,
even if I have to make them
say it out loud.
I opened this bottle to christen
this studio with you, just so you know
how special it is.
[clears throat] May I?
I would let you
do this yourself, but, um...
[clears throat]
...I wanted you to be free...
for a moment.
I'm glad you trusted me.
- I don't have any reason to fight.
- [short chuckle]
Does that bother you?
I'll have it cleaned up in the morning.
[both chuckle softly]
[slurring] That would be nice.
What...
What did you...
What did you-- what did you do?
Oh, I did it again.
Only this time,
the sedative was in the drink.
Believe me, you'll be so glad I did.
Shh, shh, shh.
[Bobby] ♪ Oh, baby, you ♪
♪ You got what I need ♪
♪ But you say he's just a friend ♪
♪ You said he's just a friend ♪
♪ Oh, baby ♪
♪ You ♪
How'd I know that you'd come?
[eerie music playing]
Give.
What, you having second thoughts?
Shit, I get it.
But you need to move on
to that third thought,
which is that the point of no return
has been in your rearview
for a long,
long, long, long, long time,
my brother.
- Just take it.
- [Cross] Stop!
Nobody move.
It's over.
Bobby Trey?
What's going on, fat boy?
Who invited you to the party?
I-- Not me. I-I swear to God.
Oh, okay. Crossy-Cross,
you must have put a tracker on the book.
Come on, Bobby.
You did the job.
You know how it goes down.
But you don't.
[Cross] No! Don't!
Go! I got him!
[♪ Tommee Profitt: "We Runnin"]
- Goddamn it, Chris.
- [coughs]
What did you do?
Stay with me. Stay with me.
Stay with me. Come on.
♪ Ready, set, go ♪
♪ Game time, I'm like Melo ♪
♪ Rhyming over that cello ♪
♪ Runnin' hard till death row ♪
♪ Yeah, I'm trained up, my game up ♪
♪ My crew dangerous aimed up ♪
♪ We running tracks in your lane, bruh ♪
♪ Truth packed and I'm way up ♪
♪ Like straight up, I lace up ♪
♪ My mind all on that race, bruh ♪
♪ Feet fly, no weight, bruh ♪
♪ I sky walk, no Vader ♪
♪ You want the facts,
you can come and see me ♪
♪ Sauced up, I'm like tortellini ♪
♪ Cooking your noodle like fettuccine,
Chef Curry with a pen, trippy ♪
♪ We runnin' ♪
♪ I'm never quitting, I'm never stopping ♪
♪ You know we rockin' ♪
♪ You know we get it,
let's get it poppin' ♪
♪ You know we got this ♪
♪ We taking over till death behold us ♪
♪ They told us stop it ♪
♪ But we ain't quitting, forever living,
we runnin on 'em ♪
Hey!
Don't do it.
Enough. Hands up.
Drop it. Let's go.
Mm-mmm.
Precious cargo, bruh.
Precious to who?
I know this ain't about you.
Who you working for, Bobby?
If you knew, Crossy-Cross,
you'd let me go right the fuck now.
Then tell me.
Help me find Shannon.
You can get yourself
out of a whole lot of--
Shit.
[police radio chatter]
No trace of the body or the book.
And the tracker's gone dead.
A BOLO is out in case he's alive, but...
Goddamn it.
A feeding frenzy of media over there
and I have to explain
why we kept the lid on a serial killer
who, turns out, was a cop.
Bobby Trey is an ex-cop.
How do we know he was working
with someone inside the department?
He knew about Tavio. And Vanessa.
Pretty sure he was tipped off
about the brownstone before we raided it.
Had to be a leak somewhere.
Robert Abellard.
Thought I was done with him
when I booted his ass two years ago.
You're sure he's the Fanboy?
Yes.
You think the Witmer girl's still alive?
I don't know.
Well, finding her
would be a beautiful silver lining.
Understood.
You don't want to tell her
Bobby Trey's not the Fanboy?
Not yet.
You think if he got to Wu,
he got to somebody else in MPD?
I think that we need
to work this one alone for a minute.
You, me and Kayla.
[tense music playing]
[whistling a tune]
What is that?
The next step.
I like you, Shannon.
I really do.
But don't think that changes anything.
Open up.
Atta girl. Other side.
Other side.
Almost. There we go.
Oh. Oh. That's okay.
Perfect.
You're so close to Aileen
in so many ways.
Except one.
One of her most memorable features
was her smile.
Unfortunately for you,
yours is nothing like it.
So...
...why don't we fix that?
[whimpering]
So...
if I were you, I would hold
very...
very still.
[shrieks]
[panting]
[whimpering]
[yelps]
- [barks]
- [groans]
[unzips bag]
[groans] Okay.
[groaning]
[grunts]
We gonna have to go to the gutter
for a little bit, Mojo.
Ready for a road trip? Ready?
- [laughs]
- [playful growling]
Oh, you motherfucker.
[chuckles]
[atmospheric music playing]
[weatherman] The forecast: plenty
of sunshine through today, with seasonal--
- [click]
- [Stokes] Sources confirm
an unidentified murder suspect
is believed dead tonight
following a gunfight
with famed MPD detective Alex Cross.
A search for the suspect's body
continues tonight
as crews work on both sides of the riv--
- [app opens]
- [dialing]
[line ringing]
Go somewhere you can talk.
I don't need excuses.
What's clear to me is that
I need to take this man more seriously.
[chuckles softly]
He's not gonna stop.
Unless I make him stop.
[knock on door]
Uh, come on in.
It's late, Alex.
Uh...
- You forgot something.
- [short chuckle]
Yeah, thank you.
No, Elle, thank you.
You know, for a moment there...
...everything just felt...
right.
- [♪ India.
- Arie: "Ready for Love"]
♪ I am ready for love ♪
♪ Why are you hiding ♪
♪ From me? ♪
♪ I'd quickly give my ♪
♪ Freedom ♪
♪ To be held ♪
♪ In your captivity ♪
♪ I am ready for love ♪
♪ All of the joy and the pain ♪
♪ And all the time ♪
♪ That it takes ♪
♪ Just to stay ♪
♪ In your ♪
♪ Good grace ♪
♪ Lately, I've been thinking ♪
♪ Maybe you're not ready ♪
♪ For me ♪
♪ Maybe you think ♪
♪ I need to learn maturity ♪
♪ But if you ask me tomorrow ♪
♪ To prove I am ready ♪
♪ For love ♪
♪ I am ready ♪
[chuckles]
[car door opens]
Trying to get home
before the kids wake up?
How did you find me?
I put a tracker on you years ago.
Kidding.
Sampson said that you'd
want this news in person, so...
What news?
I found Harry Powers.
Or the man using that name.
That ID wasn't just used at the pharmacy.
I also found it in the ratfuck of LLCs
that own the brownstone that you searched.
And it was on file
at an auction last March.
Someone using that name
had the winning bid
on a Weegee photograph.
There's video.
[suspenseful music playing]
Ed Ramsey is the Fanboy?
No. This only proves he's Harry Powers.
Well, it's a perfect fit.
He craves power,
he loves control even more.
If DC is a swamp,
that man is the biggest fucking gator.
Do not go in there
- unless you're sure it is him.
- [chuckles]
Oh, I'm sure.
I'm sure.
What now?
Where are you going?
His birthday party.
[♪ Tone P: "2 Official"]
- [woman] Trap bounce.
- [man] Drop.
This how we coming.
Tone P., DC or nothin'.
[indistinct chatter]
♪ From the start of CFE ♪
♪ BB guns and 223s ♪
♪ I been all through the DMV ♪
♪ I can't explain the shit you see ♪
♪ Bought that mambo sauce and wings ♪
♪ That's the smell of DC ♪
♪ Don't be loafing at them letters ♪
♪ That shit hell in DC ♪
♪ I made my own go-go band,
call that shit ♪
- Next time on Cross...
- [Ramsey] Hey.
- Now it's a party.
- [Elle] Ed, happy birthday.
You remember Alex?
[Ramsey] How could I forget?
Metro PD's golden boy.
I'm so honored you could make the time.
Honor's all mine.
What's going on with the serial killer?
People are scared.
You got to give us something.
- [Daine] Do you have any suspects?
- [Anderson] Not yet.
We do have a profile of the killer.
[intense music playing]
White male, 40s.
Suave, confident.
More Bundy than Dahmer.
[Ramsey] You're digging
a deeper hole.
[Sampson] How's it going over there?
- Does he know you're looking at him?
- [Cross] Oh, yeah.
It's game on.
You think you can stop him?
I know I can.
[screams]
[Ramsey] What happens at Ramsey's
stays at Ramsey's. Right, Alex?
[laughs]
♪ I'm a producer with this Ruger ♪
♪ A-And a mixer with this 'nine thing ♪
♪ Gold watch, red drink,
blue-blue haunchos and a green bean ♪
♪ Know it seem mean,
that boy look nervous so he seem green ♪
♪ If you can't see that,
then you seeing things ♪
♪ All-all we see is green,
therefore we don't give a damn ♪
♪ 'Bout a damn thing,
you trynna build a buzz ♪
♪ I'm trynna build a damn grand scheme,
a well thought-out plan scheme ♪
♪ I won't fuck up my band's scheme ♪
♪ Fuck that up, I'll leave a damn scene,
boww ♪
Hey, yo, this too easy, man. Lightshow!
♪ She got ass for days ♪
♪ I got gas and rosé ♪
♪ I know her from the 'gram ♪
♪ She know me
from that Georgetown press relay ♪
♪ Could be shots, maybe not ♪
♪ Oh, my God, SMH ♪
♪ Throw these knots, either way ♪
- ♪ 'Cause I could not discriminate ♪
- ♪ On God ♪
♪ Use that money, count it till it break ♪
♪ We ain't into hate,
waitress send a steak ♪
- ♪ Medium rare ♪
- ♪ How much ♪